- [Instructor] If you are taking this course,
I assume you have experienced
some real-world operations with Kubernetes,
and as such,
these operations will probably be seen
as everyday things that you did,
and that's kind of the point.
With regards to Kubernetes.
Let's talk about what operations generally are.
Usually, at least at first,
they're human tasks.
Usually, human tasks that are repeatable.
Meaning they tend to be highly automatable.
Generally, they are about managing the service
or set of services deployed to a run time.
In this case, Kubernetes.
Now management of services
is a big and vague concept
but that is on purpose
because with Kubernetes operators,
you can do almost any type of management
you can think of.
One common operator that we see
is on service deployments.
By leveraging what is called
a custom resource definition
or C R D.
You can configure service,
and allow for it to be installed.
This is not only the use case
of a Kubernetes operator,
but is a very common use case
that you will see in the wild,
because oftentimes the standard pod
or deployment isn't sufficient,
for how we need to deploy our applications.
Another common example is fixing
what is broken,
tasks like scaling can be controlled
or configured via an operator,
but scaling isn't the only thing
you'll see resolution
with on Kubernetes operators.
Again, if you can dream it,
and the feedback loop supports it,
you can automate it.
Ultimately, I look at operations as control.
Controlling the good, the bad and the ugly.
And again, specifically control
of the Kubernetes environment.
Things like controlling the flow of actions
is a common pattern I have used
for Kubernetes operators.
Things like controlling the order resources
come up when they're installed together
is a prime example of controlling the flow.
Another use of control comes from
solving that which hasn't solved.
And with software,
we are talking about extending functionality.
Every single developer
who has used an API has said
to him or herself at some point,
"I sure wish this API did X."
Operational control is at times
about doing just this thing,
making the tool again, Kubernetes.
Do what you wish it did out of the box.
Now we briefly talked about remediations
in the form of errors, but with operations,
we are not only focusing on error states,
we want to control the entire life cycle
of the application and remediate issues
before they become a pain point.
And that's sort of the utopia of the SRE role.
And the grand gesture of control
is outright modification.
Again, every developer or operator has said
to him or herself
that something is done wrong and as such,
it should be changed.
No one knows your use cases like you do.
And as such,
sometimes you just need to change the behavior.
And again, in this case,
we're talking about Kubernetes.
Now this again has been very vague,
and again on purpose while we will focus
on one very concise use case in this course.
You as an experienced Kubernetes developer
or operator,
have your own very clear cases
of operations that would fit into this course.
That is what I'm hoping anyway
that you can see what operations
we are going to solve,
and apply that to your use cases
to make your team more efficient.